I'M THE PRODUCER/DIRECTOR
OF GLOBAL CITIES,
AN INTERNATIONAL
TELEVISION SERIES
WHICH DOCUMENTS
THE IMPACT OF IMMIGRATION
ON THE GLOBALIZATION PROCESS.
HERE IN THE U.S.,
IN 1960, ONLY ONE-EIGHTH
OF THE POPULATION INCREASE
WAS DUE TO IMMIGRATION--
IN 2001, OVER ONE-THIRD OF IT.
WHETHER BECAUSE
OF THE PLIGHT OF REFUGEES,
THE NEED
FOR CHEAP FOREIGN LABOR,
OR THE VERY NATURE
OF ITS IMMIGRATION POLICY,
THE U.S.
IS FACING DEMOGRAPHIC PROBLEMS
THAT MAKE FOR VOLATILE,
DANGEROUS
NEW POLITICAL DISPUTES.
TO EXAMINE THE ISSUES
SURROUNDING
THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE,
I'VE COME TO NEW YORK CITY,
WHICH IS THE GATEWAY
TO THE UNITED STATES, AS FAR AS
IMMIGRATION IS CONCERNED.
YOU WILL HEAR
FROM ETHNIC LEADERS,
POLITICIANS,
AND IMMIGRATION EXPERTS.
LET'S BEGIN WITH FORMER
NEW JERSEY U.S. SENATOR,
BILL BRADLEY.
THE UNTOLD STORY OF AMERICA
IS THAT SINCE 1965,
WE'VE HAD
A NEW WAVE OF IMMIGRANTS
THAT HAVE ENRICHED
THE DIVERSITY OF OUR COUNTRY,
JUST AS
PREVIOUS WAVES HAVE DONE,
AND THEY CAME FOR MANY REASONS.
SOME OF THEM DID COME
TO GO TO WORK FOR COMPANIES,
SOME OF 'EM CAME
BECAUSE THEY FLED OPPRESSION.
BECAUSE THEY WANTED
THE EXPERIENCE OF THE CULTURE.
SOME OF 'EM CAME
BECAUSE THEY WANTED
TO HAVE A BETTER LIFE
FOR THEIR CHILDREN.
WELL, MOST IMMIGRANTS
TO THE UNITED STATES
ARE ADMITTED AS IMMIGRANTS,
NOT ON THE BASIS
OF A NEED FOR LABOR,
OR A NEED FOR SKILLS,
BUT RATHER SIMPLY BECAUSE
THEY HAVE FAMILY CONNECTIONS
TO U.S. CITIZENS
OR LEGAL PERMANENT RESIDENTS,
FORMER IMMIGRANTS
TO THE UNITED STATES.
THERE'S NO NUMERICAL LIMIT
ON SUCH ADMISSIONS
FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY
OF U.S. CITIZENS.
SO AS NATURALIZATION
TAKES PLACE,
NEWLY,
NEWLY NATURALIZED CITIZENS
PETITION FOR THE ADMISSION
OF THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS,
AND YOU GET FLOWS THAT HAVE
NOTHING TO DO
WITH LABOR, OR NEED FOR LABOR.
THE CONCERN THAT MANY PEOPLE
HAVE, AND ONE THAT I HAVE,
IS THE LARGE NUMBER
OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS.
AS I TOLD YOU EARLIER,
WE HAVE OVER HALF A MILLION
ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN THE
METROPOLITAN NEW YORK CITY AREA.
AND THAT, TO ME, IS WRONG,
IT SHOULD NOT BE,
BECAUSE WHAT YOU HAVE IS PEOPLE
WHO ARE FOLLOWING THE RULES,
COMING IN, AND DOING
THE THINGS THAT ARE REQUIRED,
AND OTHERS
WHO'RE JUST VIOLATING THE LAW,
AND COMING IN, BEING SMUGGLED
IN, HOWEVER THEY GET HERE,
WITH VISAS THAT ARE FORGED,
AND ALL KINDS OF THINGS.
DEBATE OVER IMMIGRATION ISSUES
IN THE DEVELOPED WORLD
ARE CREATING EXPLOSIVE POLITICAL
CRISES IN MANY COUNTRIES.
HERE IN THE U.S.,
HUGE NEW WAVES OF IMMIGRANTS
CONSIDERED TOO SPICY
FOR THE AMERICAN MELTING POT
ARE ALTERING
ITS SOCIAL TEXTURE,
AND CHANGING
THE FACE OF AMERICA.
MS. McHUGH, I'VE BEEN TOLD
BY MANY NEW YORKERS
THAT THE NEW WAVE
OF IMMIGRANTS,
PEOPLE WHO ARRIVE
IN THE '80s AND '90s,
ARE REALLY CHANGING
THE FACE OF NEW YORK CITY.
DO YOU THINK THIS IS TRUE?
WELL, ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK YOU CAN'T BE
TWO-THIRDS OF THE CITY
AND NOT HAVE CHANGED THE--
YOU KNOW, CHANGED EVERYTHING,
FROM, OBVIOUSLY,
THE COMPLEXION OF THE CITY,
RIGHT ON DOWN TO ITS, YOU KNOW,
ITS BASE OF BUSINESSES AND JOBS,
ITS CULTURE,
ITS EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS.
SO, CERTAINLY I THINK
THAT THIS IS
FUNDAMENTALLY CHANGING NEW YORK,
AND IN WAYS
THAT MOST NEW YORKERS EMBRACE
AND BELIEVE HAVE REALLY
BREATHED NEW LIFE INTO THE CITY.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU LOOK
AROUND THE UNITED STATES,
THERE ARE A LOT OF CITIES
THAT ARE REALLY ON THE DECLINE,
AND ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO GET MORE IMMIGRANTS.
YEAH, I MEAN, IF YOU LOOK
AT A LOT OF
URBAN CENTERS IN AMERICA,
THAT 20 YEARS AGO
WERE THOUGHT TO BE DEAD,
THEY'RE ALIVE, AND THEY'RE ALIVE
BECAUSE OF IMMIGRANTS.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THE CITIES
WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN
FEW IMMIGRANTS,
THEY'VE MOVED VERY LITTLE.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE CITIES
WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN
A LOT OF IMMIGRANTS,
YOU HAVE WHOLE NEW SUBCULTURES,
THAT ADD TO THE DYNAMISM
AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY,
AND ULTIMATE PROSPERITY,
OF THAT COMMUNITY.
RUIZ: MS. DESAI,
THERE SEEMS TO BE
A LOT OF INTERACTION AMONG
THE DIFFERENT ETHNIC GROUPS
THAT OCCUPY WHAT I CALL
THE CULTURAL MIDDLE GROUND
HERE IN NEW YORK CITY.
ARE THESE GROUPS CREATING
THEIR OWN CULTURAL SPACE?
THEY DO.
THEY DO CREATE THEIR OWN SPACE.
THEY DO, YOU KNOW,
COME TOGETHER.
YOU'LL FIND POCKETS OF PEOPLE
LIVING, YOU KNOW,
ALMOST LIKE
IN ISOLATION AT TIMES.
BUT IT'S LIKE
9:00 TO 5:00, YOU KNOW.
WHEN THEY ARE 9:00 TO 5:00
AT WORK, THEY ARE AMERICAN.
BUT WHEN THEY GO HOME,
IT'S LIKE, GOING HOME
AND EATING
YOUR OWN TRADITIONAL FOOD,
AND HAVING YOUR OWN CIRCLE
OF FRIENDS FROM BACK HOME,
AND YOU SPEND YOUR WEEKENDS
AT THE RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS.
BUT YOU ALSO LEARN
TO, YOU KNOW, ACCULTURATE,
IS PROBABLY THE WORD,
AND LEARN TO BE AMERICAN
DURING THE HOURS
THAT YOU NEED TO BE AMERICAN,
AND OPERATE VERY PRODUCTIVELY,
BUT AT THE SAME TIME MAINTAIN
YOUR IDENTITY AND YOUR CULTURE.
MR. LIU, IS IT POSSIBLE
IN NEW YORK CITY
TO BE BILINGUAL AND BICULTURAL?
ABSOLUTELY, AND I WOULD THINK
THAT AS WE GET FURTHER ALONG,
INTO THE FUTURE, PEOPLE
WOULD BECOME, FURTHERMORE,
MULTILINGUAL, AND MULTICULTURAL.
YOU LOOK AT THE--
I AM ASIAN-AMERICAN,
I HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
ASIAN-AMERICAN,
AND I'M PROUD TO BE.
I HAVE RETAINED MANY ASPECTS
OF MY ASIAN CULTURE,
AND I AM FULLY IMMERSED
IN AMERICAN POP CULTURE.
SO I'M VERY FORTUNATE
TO HAVE THAT.
I THINK AS, AS OUR SCHOOLS
BECOME MUCH MORE INTEGRATED,
AND AS
OUR RESIDENTIAL AREAS,
BASICALLY THE FABRIC
OF NEW YORK CITY,
BECOMES MUCH MORE INTEGRATED,
PEOPLE WILL BECOME,
WHETHER THEY LIKE IT OR NOT,
MULTILINGUAL AND MULTICULTURAL.
RUIZ: TO SOME AMERICANS,
IMMIGRANTS ARE A THREATENING,
RATHER THAN INVIGORATING,
FORCE IN NATIONAL LIFE,
A DRAIN IN NATIONAL RESOURCES,
OR EVEN A FIFTH COLUMN
WITHIN THE NATION.
AND FOR AMERICAN NATIONALISTS,
IMMIGRANTS WHO REFUSE TO FULLY
INTEGRATE ARE SEEN AS A THREAT
TO THE NATIONAL AND ETHNIC
IDENTITY OF THE UNITED STATES.
SENATOR PADAVAN,
NEW YORKERS TELL ME
THAT MANY NEW IMMIGRANTS
ARE NOT INTEGRATING
INTO THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE,
THAT THEY'RE NOT
BECOMING AMERICAN,
AND THAT THEY'RE CLINGING ONTO
THEIR OWN CULTURE AND LANGUAGE.
IS THIS A CONCERN
IN NEW YORK CITY?
WELL, IT'S ALWAYS A CONCERN,
I THINK IT'S A CONCERN
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD,
WHETHER THEY CAME
TO NEW YORK CITY,
OR THEY CAME
INTO SOME EUROPEAN CITY,
THAT THEY BRING THEIR CULTURE,
AND THEIR RELIGION,
AND THEIR BACKGROUND,
AND THEIR WAY OF LIFE,
WITH THEM, IT'S ONLY NATURAL.
YOU JUST CAN'T-- BECAUSE
SOMEONE COMES ACROSS THE BORDER,
AND GETS OFF A PLANE AT
LA GUARDIA OR KENNEDY AIRPORT,
DOESN'T MEAN, ALL OF A SUDDEN,
HE IS SOMETHIN' ELSE.
HE IS WHAT HE IS,
AND HE GRAVITATES TO COMMUNITIES
WHERE HE FEELS
COMFORTABLE WITH OTHER PEOPLE
WITH SIMILAR BACKGROUNDS.
THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
OF THE UNITED STATES
HAS VERY, VERY LITTLE INPUT
THROUGHOUT A CHILD'S
EDUCATIONAL YEARS
REGARDING ASIAN CULTURE,
ASIAN HISTORY, ASIAN LANGUAGES.
AND AS A RESULT OF THIS,
IT IS MORE
A FEAR OF THE UNKNOWN.
AND REALLY,
THERE IS NOTHING TO FEAR,
BECAUSE THE ASIANS
ARE HERE IN AMERICA
VOLUNTARILY BY CHOICE.
SOMEWHERE,
IN THEIR CURRENT GENERATION,
OR THEIR MOST
PREVIOUS GENERATION,
THEY'VE VOTED WITH THEIR FEET
TO COME TO AMERICA.
SO OUR EXISTENCE IN AMERICA
IS VERY, VERY PRECIOUS TO US.
AND, THEREFORE,
WE HAVE EVERY REASON
TO CONTRIBUTE
TO THE SUCCESS OF THIS COUNTRY.
WE BRING IT
IN MANY, MANY DIFFERENT WAYS,
SOMETIMES ACADEMICALLY,
SOMETIMES IN A TECHNOLOGY,
SOMETIMES EVEN WITH OUR FOOD.
RUIZ: WE OFTEN HEAR
THAT ONE OF THE BASIC CONCEPTS
OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY
IS FREEDOM OF RELIGION.
DO YOU THINK THERE IS
FREEDOM OF RELIGION
FOR MINORITIES,
HERE IN THE U.S.?
THERE IS FREEDOM OF RELIGION
FROM THE GOVERNMENT
POINT OF VIEW.
IN OTHER WORDS,
THE GOVERNMENT DOES NOT--
IT GIVES YOU
THE SAME BENEFITS, SO TO SAY,
WHETHER YOU ARE A HINDU
OR AT A CHRISTIAN CHURCH,
OR WHATEVER.
BUT IF YOU WERE TO ASK ME
WHETHER OR NOT
THEY ARE KEPT AT THE SAME LEVEL,
THE ANSWER IS NO.
IN THIS SENSE, WOULD CHRISTIANS
ALSO LOOK UPON THE MINORITY
RELIGIONS IN THE SAME FASHION,
AS THEY PROFESS
TO HAVE THE FREEDOM OF RELIGION?
PROBABLY NOT SO,
BECAUSE OF THE MAJORITY
OF THE CHRISTIANS.
BUT FROM THE GOVERNMENTAL LEVEL,
SEEKING THE BENEFITS--
FOR EXAMPLE,
LET'S SAY WE NEED TAX EXEMPTION,
BECAUSE WE ARE
ALSO A RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION.
THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE.
AS LONG AS
YOU ARE AN ESTABLISHED,
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION,
YOU ARE ALLOWED TO GET
THE SAME KIND OF BENEFITS,
WHATEVER THE GOVERNMENT ALLOWS,
WHETHER YOU ARE A CHURCH,
A TEMPLE, SYNAGOGUE,
WHATEVER IT BE.
RUIZ:
SENATOR PADAVAN, I SENSE
THAT MANY
NATIVE-BORN NEW YORKERS
DON'T FEEL COMFORTABLE
WITH THE ARRIVAL
OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF NON-EUROPEAN IMMIGRANTS,
WHO ARE DEMANDING TO PLAY A ROLE
IN THE LIFE OF THE CITY.
WHEN THE ITALIANS AND THE IRISH
CAME IN GREAT NUMBERS,
AS AN EXAMPLE,
IN THE TURN OF THE CENTURY,
THERE WAS SOME--
THERE WAS RESENTMENT
ON THE PART OF SOME PEOPLE
WHO FELT
THAT THIS WAS NOT DESIRABLE.
'COURSE, TURNED OUT
THEY WERE WRONG--
IT WAS DESIRABLE,
THE NET RESULT.
IT'S HUMAN NATURE.
WE DON'T LIKE CHANGE.
AND WHEN IT'S
SIGNIFICANT CHANGE,
WE LIKE IT EVEN LESS.
RUIZ: MR. MARTINEZ,
A LOT OF LATINOS
COMPLAIN OF RACISM
IN NEW YORK CITY.
A HIGH SCHOOL GIRL
FROM THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
TOLD ME THAT
SHE'S OFTEN CALLED "NIGGER."
IS THERE RACISM IN THIS SOCIETY?
I THINK THERE IS
RACISM IN THIS SOCIETY.
I THINK WE'VE DONE--
WE'VE GONE A LONG WAY
IN TERMS OF IMPROVING
THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN
THE DIFFERENT ETHNIC GROUPS,
BETWEEN WHITES
AND BLACK AND LATINOS.
BUT THERE STILL EXISTS
SOME FRICTION
IN TERMS OF THE WAY
WE INTERACT WITH ONE ANOTHER.
YOU KNOW, MR. MARTINEZ,
SOME PEOPLE ARE SAYING
THAT LATINOS MAKE TOO MUCH FUSS
ABOUT BEING DISCRIMINATED.
THAT IS WHAT A CITY OFFICIAL
HERE IN NEW YORK TOLD ME.
DO YOU THINK THAT'S TRUE?
WELL, I DON'T THINK
IT'S MAKING A FUSS,
IT'S MORE OF
BRINGING ATTENTION AND AWARENESS
THAT WE'RE NOT GETTING
THE SAME OPPORTUNITIES
THAT OTHER PEOPLE ARE GETTING.
IT'S BRINGING ATTENTION
THAT WE ARE A MAJORITY.
WE ARE NOT ONLY A MAJORITY,
WE ARE AN ACTIVE MAJORITY
THAT'S STARTING
TO PARTICIPATE AND VOTE.
THIS CITY IS NOW TWO-THIRDS
IMMIGRANTS AND THEIR CHILDREN.
THE MAJORITY OF PEOPLE
WHO LIVE HERE IN NEW YORK CITY
ARE FROM IMMIGRANT FAMILIES.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF PEOPLE
AND YET THEIR NEEDS
HAVE GONE UNADDRESSED
FOR A VERY, VERY LONG TIME.
AND THAT'S BECAUSE
YOU EITHER HAVE TO HAVE
A LOT OF MONEY TO GIVE
IN CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS,
OR A LOT OF VOTES,
IN ORDER TO HARNESS
THE POLITICAL PROCESS
TO YOUR COMMUNITY'S NEEDS.
AND SO,
FOR THE LAST TEN YEARS OR SO,
MANY GROUPS IN OUR NETWORK
HAVE BEEN STRIVING VERY HARD
TO TRY AND HAVE IMMIGRANTS COME
INTO THE MAINSTREAM POLITICALLY.
RUIZ: MR. LIU,
HERE IN NEW YORK CITY,
ETHNIC MINORITIES ARE EMERGING
AS A POLITICAL FORCE
WITH THE POWER
TO SWING DISTRICT ELECTIONS.
WILL THIS LEAD
TO MINORITY GROUPS
WORKING TOGETHER
FOR COMMON GOALS,
OR TO COMPETING
AGAINST EACH OTHER?
WELL, YOU KNOW, NEW YORK CITY
HAS ALWAYS BEEN A MOSAIC
OF DIFFERENT ETHNIC GROUPS.
AT THE TURN OF THE PRIOR
CENTURY, IN THE EARLY 1900s,
YOU HAD
DIFFERENT GROUPS COMING IN,
IMMIGRATING FROM EUROPE,
AND THERE WERE, THERE WAS
ECONOMIC COMPETITION,
POLITICAL COMPETITION,
MUCH THE SAME AS YOU HAVE NOW,
AT THE TURN
OF THE 21st CENTURY.
WE DO HAVE
DIFFERENT GROUPS OF PEOPLE
COMING IN
FROM DIFFERENT PARTS OF ASIA.
YOU TAKE, FOR EXAMPLE, LATINOS.
YOU'VE GOT DIFFERENT GROUPS
OF LATINOS COMING IN,
THEY'RE COMPETING
AGAINST EACH OTHER
FOR ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL
AND SOCIAL OPPORTUNITY.
TAKE, FOR EXAMPLE, CHINA.
YOU'VE-- THAT'S A HUGE COUNTRY.
YOU'VE GOT DIFFERENT GROUPS
OF PEOPLE FROM CHINA COMING,
AGAIN, COMPETING,
AND THAT'S WHAT AMERICA'S ABOUT.
AMERICA IS
A SOCIETY OF COMPETITION.
I THINK THAT WHAT WE FEEL,
AND MAYBE
WE'RE IN A UNIQUE POSITION,
BEING HERE IN NEW YORK.
BUT-- BUT I--
WE HEAR ALL THE TIME
THAT PEOPLE VALUE
IMMIGRANTS COMING IN
PRECISELY BECAUSE THEY'RE MORE
AMERICAN THAN MOST AMERICANS.
THEY'RE MORE IDEALISTIC,
THEY BELIEVE IN FREEDOM,
BECAUSE THEY'VE HAD
EXPERIENCES OF BEING REPRESSED
IN A VERY SERIOUS WAY.
THEY'VE HAD THEIR
EITHER RELIGIOUS PERSECUTION,
POLITICAL PERSECUTION,
LACK OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY,
AND SO THEY BELIEVE
VERY STRONGLY
IN A LOT
OF THE CORE AMERICAN VALUES,
AND-- AND ACTUALLY
REJUVENATE THE CULTURE.
ONE-THIRD OF ALL START-UPS
IN SILICON VALLEY IN THE 1990s
WERE STARTED BY ENTREPRENEURS
OF ASIAN ANCESTRY.
BY FAR THE LARGEST, THE LARGEST
MINORITY IN THE COUNTRY
IN 15 OR 20 YEARS
WILL BE LATINOS.
YOU KNOW, AMERICA IS
A TREMENDOUSLY RICH PLACE,
AND IT HAS NEVER BEEN TRUER
THAT WE WILL EITHER
ALL ADVANCE TOGETHER,
OR EACH OF US
WILL BE DIMINISHED.
MR. MARTINEZ,
HISPANICS HAVE BECOME
THE LARGEST MINORITY
IN THE U.S., BUT YOU CLAIM
THAT THE OPPORTUNITIES OTHER
MINORITIES HAD IN THE PAST
ARE NOT THERE FOR LATINOS.
YEAH, FOR EXAMPLE, YES,
WHEN WE'RE BECOMING A MAJORITY,
BUT THEN THEY'RE
CLOSING THE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR US TO WORK,
FOR US TO GET INTO, LIKE,
BECOMING A POLICE OFFICER,
BECOMING A FIREMAN.
BEFORE, YOU ONLY HAD TO HAVE
A HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA,
AND YOU WERE QUALIFIED
TO BECOME A POLICE OFFICER.
NOW THEY'RE TELLING YOU,
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SOME COLLEGE.
FOR MANY YEARS,
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT WAS USED
BY MANY IMMIGRANT GROUPS, A WAY
INTO, GOING INTO GOVERNMENT,
GETTING A GOOD JOB, A SECURE JOB
THAT WILL OFFER RETIREMENT,
VACATION, HEALTH INSURANCE,
FOR YOUR FAMILY AND YOURSELF.
BUT THEY WERE MOSTLY WHITE
IMMIGRANT, IRISH, SOME ITALIAN.
AND NOW WE HAVE A LARGE GROUP
OF IMMIGRANT BLACK AND LATINO,
MOSTLY LATINO, WHO ARE BECOMING
A BIG MAJORITY IN THIS CITY,
GRADUATING HIGH SCHOOL,
AND THEY'RE TELLING THEM,
WE'RE NOT GIVING YOU
THE SAME OPPORTUNITY.
YOU HAVE TO CONTINUE
INTO COLLEGE,
WHICH IS GOOD, FOR SOME SENSE,
BUT THEY'RE ALSO
CLOSING DOORS FOR US,
BECAUSE WHEN WE GO
TO THE UNIVERSITY,
THEY'RE ALSO TELLING US,
NOW YOU GOTTA PAY MORE MONEY
FOR THE SAME EDUCATION
THAT OTHER IMMIGRANTS HAD.
I CAN'T SPEAK TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT ISSUE YOU RAISED,
OR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
I DON'T HONESTLY KNOW
THE SITUATION THERE.
BUT IT'S CERTAINLY TRUE
THAT FROM WHAT I'VE SEEN,
FIREMEN AND POLICEMEN ARE USING
PRETTY SOPHISTICATED MACHINERY
THESE DAYS.
I MEAN, THEY'RE--
A LOT OF THIS IS COMPUTERIZED,
AND YOU PROBABLY DO WANT
SOMEBODY WHO IS WELL--
MUCH BETTER-EDUCATED
THAN YOU USED TO DEMAND
OF A POLICEMAN
WALKING THE BEAT.
SO IT HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH DISCRIMINATION?
I DON'T KNOW. I MEAN...
I HAVE NEVER
HEARD ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
IN FACT, I'VE ALWAYS HEARD
THAT THE POLICE FORCE IS OUT
BEATING THE BUSHES TO ATTRACT
PEOPLE FROM ETHNIC MINORITIES
TO APPLY FOR POLICE POSITIONS,
AND FIRE POSITIONS.
BUT I DON'T KNOW THE FACTS,
SO I'M THE WRONG WITNESS
FOR THIS QUESTION.
THE ZIGZAGS AND REVERSALS OF
AMERICAN POLICY ON IMMIGRATION
REFLECT CHANGES
IN POLITICAL OUTLOOK.
BUT THROUGH IT ALL,
IMMIGRATION QUESTIONS
ARE BECOMING
MORE PROMINENT, MORE DIVISIVE,
AND MORE DIFFICULT TO HANDLE.
AND WE'VE ALWAYS HAD A HIGHLY,
HIGHLY, COMPULSIVELY STRUCTURED
IMMIGRATION POLICY, WHERE
WE EXPEND TREMENDOUS RESOURCES
ON THESE QUESTIONS OF PROCESSING
PEOPLE FOR COMING IN,
AND, YOU KNOW,
DEFENDING THE BORDER,
AND DEALING WITH IMMIGRATION
ASPECTS OF THIS ISSUE,
AND VIRTUALLY NO RESOURCES
AND NO THINKING
ON THE QUESTION
OF IMMIGRANT INTEGRATION,
AS IF IT'LL HAPPEN BY MAGIC.
SO WE'RE SPENDING
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
ON OUR IMMIGRATION SYSTEM,
AND WE DON'T HAVE ONE PERSON,
NOT ONE PERSON
IN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT,
WHOSE JOB IT IS TO THEN
TAKE A LOOK ACROSS THE COUNTRY
AND SAY, SO WHAT'S HAPPENING,
NOW THAT
WE'VE LET THESE PEOPLE IN?
MR. TEITELBAUM,
AS WE ENTER THE 21st CENTURY,
THERE SEEMS TO BE
A HEATED DEBATE
ON WHAT THE AMERICAN NATIONAL
AND ETHNIC IDENTITY SHOULD BE.
SHOULD AMERICA
REMAIN A MELTING POT,
OR BECOME
MORE LIKE A SALAD BOWL?
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
IT'S A VERY MESSY DEBATE,
FULL OF EMOTION,
AND EXTREME CLAIMS
ON ONE SIDE OR THE OTHER.
YOU WILL ALWAYS HAVE PEOPLE
WITH NATIONAL IDENTITIES,
OR ETHNIC IDENTITIES,
OR RELIGIOUS IDENTITIES
THAT DIFFER FROM ONE ANOTHER,
AND I THINK
AMERICAN HISTORY HAS SHOWN
THAT THESE PEOPLE
CAN LIVE TOGETHER SUCCESSFULLY,
WORK TOGETHER SUCCESSFULLY,
IN AN INTEGRATED FASHION,
IF THEY SHARE
A COMMON SET OF VALUES,
A COMMON SET
OF NATIONAL IDENTITY,
IN ADDITION
TO THEIR OTHER IDENTITIES,
AND A WAY TO COMMUNICATE
WITH EACH OTHER SUCCESSFULLY
IN A COMMON LANGUAGE.
MS. DESAI, FOR YOU PERSONALLY,
IS IT POSSIBLE
TO LIVE IN TWO CULTURES
AT THE SAME TIME?
FOR ME? YES.
BECAUSE I HAVE
VERY SPECIFIC BOUNDARIES,
AND IT'S LIKE,
WHEN I KNOW I'M TEACHING DANCE,
AND I GO TO THE STUDIO,
AND MY STUDENTS COME,
THAT'S ALL I'M ABOUT,
IS I'M TEACHING DANCE,
AND I'M TRYING TO MAINTAIN
THE ABSOLUTE, TRADITIONAL,
CLASSICAL DANCE STYLE.
AND THAT'S, FOR ME,
ABSOLUTE, PURE FORM
OF BEING WHERE I AM
AT THAT POINT IN TIME.
WHEN I GO TO WORK,
THAT GOES OUT THE WINDOW.
AND I AM AT WORK, I'M,
YOU KNOW, DRESSED DIFFERENTLY,
I'M MEETING PEOPLE
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD.
DEEP IN YOUR HEART,
WHAT ARE YOU?
DEEP IN MY HEART, I'M ME...
INDIAN, IN AMERICA.
HOW DO NEW IMMIGRANTS SEE THE
AMERICAN MELTING POT CONCEPT?
I THINK
THERE'S A VERY STRONG SENSE
THAT PEOPLE IN THE PAST
HAVE HAD TO GIVE UP TOO MUCH,
AND GIVE UP THINGS
THAT WERE EXTREMELY VALUABLE
FROM THEIR HOME COUNTRIES,
AND WE CERTAINLY SEE THAT NOW,
WITH MANY IMMIGRANTS FEELING
THAT THE AMERICAN CULTURE,
FOR EXAMPLE, IS TOO PERMISSIVE,
OR LACKS DISCIPLINE,
AND SO THAT THEY DON'T WANT
THEIR CHILDREN TO BE IN SCHOOLS
WHERE THEY ARE SUDDENLY WEARING
THESE BAGGY CLOTHES
THAT ARE FALLING DOWN
AROUND THEIR ANKLES,
OR THE HIGHLY SEXUALIZED NATURE
OF HIGH SCHOOL,
TEENAGE CULTURE HERE IN THE U.S.
AND SO THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS
THAT IMMIGRANTS ARE LOOKING AT
IN TERMS OF THE DOMINANT CULTURE
HERE, AND SAYING, WAIT A MINUTE,
I WANT TO PASS ALONG A DIFFERENT
SET OF VALUES TO MY KIDS.
RUIZ: SENATOR BRADLEY, FOR
GENERATIONS HERE IN THE U.S.,
THERE'S BEEN AN UNWRITTEN CODE
TO AMERICANIZE
ANYBODY
WHO COMES TO THIS COUNTRY.
DO YOU THINK THAT HAS CHANGED?
BECAUSE MANY AMERICANS
ARE NOW SAYING,
WE CANNOT AMERICANIZE
THE NEW WAVE OF IMMIGRANTS.
LET THEM BE
WHATEVER THEY WANT TO BE.
WELL, NO, I MEAN, I THINK
THAT IT DEPENDS ON WHAT YOU MEAN
BY "AMERICANIZE."
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I LOOK AT IT
AS PEOPLE WHO COME,
WHO HAVE DIFFERENT RELIGIONS,
DIFFERENT ETHNICITIES,
DIFFERENT RACES.
THEY ADD THEIR VOICE
TO THE DEFINITION
OF WHAT IT MEANS
TO BE AN AMERICAN.
RUIZ: THE CONCEPT
OF RACE, NATIONAL ORIGIN,
ETHNIC ORIGIN, AND ANCESTRY,
HAVE A LONG AND TORTUROUS
HISTORY IN THE UNITED STATES.
IN 2000, JUST 35%
OF NEW YORK CITY WAS WHITE, OK?
SO NON-WHITES
ACTUALLY COMPRISE A MAJORITY
OF NEW YORK CITY'S POPULATION.
BUT ONE MUST EXERCISE CAUTION
WHEN ONE TALKS
ABOUT RACE GROUPS.
IN 1900, ITALIANS AND JEWS
WERE NOT CONSIDERED WHITE.
TODAY,
THEY ARE CONSIDERED WHITE,
AND INCLUDED, YOU KNOW,
WITH OTHER WHITES.
SO RACE IS
A VERY CHANGING CONCEPT,
IT'S A VERY MALLEABLE CONCEPT,
AND CATEGORIES THAT EXIST TODAY
ARE UNLIKELY TO EXIST
IN 30 TO 40 YEARS,
ESPECIALLY GIVEN
THE HIGH RATES OF INTERMARRIAGE.
OVER ONE-HALF
OF ASIAN WOMEN OUT-MARRY, OK?
AND CLOSE TO ONE-HALF
OF HISPANICS OUT-MARRY.
GIVEN THESE
HIGH RATES OF OUT-MARRIAGE,
THE CURRENT RACIAL DEFINITIONS
ARE GOING TO BE QUITE INADEQUATE
IN THE COMING DECADES.
IN 2000,
THE CENSUS BUREAU INTRODUCED
A NEW RACIAL CLASSIFICATION
CALLED "MULTIRACIAL."
ORIGINALLY,
RACIAL CATEGORIES WERE SIMPLE:
WHITE, NEGRO, AND INDIAN.
TODAY, THERE ARE
16 DIFFERENT RACIAL CATEGORIES.
THE CATEGORIES OF RACE
HAVE ALWAYS INTERESTED
SOCIAL SCIENTISTS.
BUT THEIR POLITICAL IMPORTANCE
INCREASES DRAMATICALLY
WHEN THESE CATEGORIES ARE USED
TO AWARD
PRIVILEGES OR BENEFITS.
MR. MARTINEZ,
WHAT DO YOU THINK LATINOS,
THE LARGEST
ETHNIC MINORITY IN THE U.S.,
HAVE TO DO
TO GET MORE OPPORTUNITIES?
YES. GET ORGANIZED,
DEMONSTRATE, PEACEFULLY,
IN TERMS OF
GETTING THE POINT ACROSS,
VOTE, ENDORSE CANDIDATES,
GET INVOLVED
IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS,
AND WE WILL SEE CHANGES.
MS. McHUGH, WHAT
CAN WE EXPECT IN THE FUTURE?
WILL THE U.S.
BE RESHAPED BY IMMIGRANTS
WHO ARE DETERMINED TO MAINTAIN
THEIR OWN CULTURE AND LANGUAGE?
YEAH. I THINK
THAT MOST PEOPLE,
WHEN THEY'RE, YOU KNOW,
POSED WITH THIS QUESTION,
ABOUT WHAT
WILL THE FUTURE BRING,
THEY JUST SAY, STAY TUNED.
ANYBODY WHO KNOWS
WHAT THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT
KNOWS THAT THEY CAN'T PREDICT
WHAT IT WILL BE.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT-- I THINK
THAT THE CULTURE WAR IN THE U.S.
REPRESENTED BY SOMEONE LIKE
PAT BUCHANAN, YOU KNOW, SAYING,
THIS IS TERRIBLE, IT DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE THE 1950s ANY MORE.
YOU KNOW, YOU'VE GOT
A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE SAYING,
WELL, THANK GOD IT DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE THE 1950s.
AND THEN A WHOLE LOT
OF OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE SAYING,
WHO KNOWS? YOU KNOW, THIS IS,
THIS IS THE FUNDAMENTAL NATURE
OF CHANGE, OF DIVERSITY.
WE'VE NEVER BEEN
IN THIS PLACE BEFORE.
WE DON'T KNOW
WHERE IT'S GOING TO LEAD US,
AND SO, LET'S GET BACK
TO SORT OF CORE, CORE SERVICES,
LIKE A STRONG EDUCATION SYSTEM,
LIKE MAKING SURE
THAT WE HAVE AS LEVEL
A PLAYING FIELD AS POSSIBLE
IN TERMS OF PEOPLE BEING ABLE
TO MOVE INTO THE HOUSING MARKET,
INTO THE JOB MARKET,
SO THAT WE AT LEAST ARE MAKING
SURE THAT WE--
THAT PEOPLE HAVE
DOORS OPEN, AND OPPORTUNITIES,
AND THEN, YOU KNOW,
WE'RE BUILDING A NEW CULTURE,
AND WE'LL JUST
HAVE TO MAKE THE INVESTMENTS
WE THINK ARE SMART
AND WISE TO MAKE.
BUT THEN, YOU KNOW,
SEE WHAT COMES OUT OF IT.
I REALLY DON'T THINK THAT--
ALL WE CAN PREDICT
IS THAT
IT WILL BE VERY DIFFERENT.
I DON'T THINK
ANYONE HAS A CRYSTAL BALL,
AN ACCURATE CRYSTAL BALL,
ON THE FUTURE.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL HAPPEN
IN THESE SETTINGS.
BUT THERE IS,
THERE ARE POSITIVE SIGNS,
AND NEGATIVE SIGNS,
ABOUT SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION,
AND IF ONE IS AN ADVOCATE
ON ONE SIDE OR THE OTHER,
YOU CAN PICK THE POSITIVE
OR PICK THE NEGATIVE SIGNS,
AND SAY,
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING.
I THINK IT'S
MUCH MORE NUANCED THAN THAT.
NO ONE
CAN PREDICT THE FUTURE.
BUT ONE THING WE CAN BE SURE OF:
THE CONFLICT OVER IMMIGRATION
AND THE ROLE
OF IMMIGRANTS IN U.S. SOCIETY
WILL GO ON.
AND GIVEN THE VOLATILITY
OF IMMIGRATION FLOWS,
AND THE DIFFICULTIES
OF MEASURING THEM,
THE CONFLICT
IS BOUND TO INTENSIFY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR WATCHING.
CAPTIONS: BROADCAST TEXT
WWW.BROADCASTTEXT.COM